The nature of the mind, of course there is many different ways of explaining that, but this is
really directly connected to the tradition, primordial wisdom.
And then this is the relative teaching of Dzogqin, Dzogqin teaching, Taqiu teaching and Togga
teaching.
Togga teaching. And now the fourth is Taqiu teaching, because Taqiu is the foundation of the Togga
practices.
And that is here, mentioned, Kumsijapu in the Tibetan and in the English.
All creating monach, monach, monarch. That is very important.
These practices, when we see this, we have to know really with confidence, have to have confidence
on teaching the practice.
Okay, monarch of all creation, all creating monarch, all the monarch of all that creation, in a way
, I think.
So the happy thing then, that is, of course, I said yesterday, and you all know, is mind.
Now you really see, is mind is creating everything.
The larger level and the variousness level, we should have confidence in it.
That means we should have this confidence with our knowledge, with your own knowledge, is true or
not.
This is the Buddha teaching. And as the Buddha taught, also we really have to see if this is true
or not.
So creating everything, our. And the larger level, all the samsara is created by the mind.
And the small level and the short distance level, and our all activity is regulated and created by
the mind.
Is it true or not? Do you think that?
Mind is, whatever we've propagated, physically or verbally, it all comes from mind.
Mind is really created everything. So that means samsara is created by mind, nirvana is created by
mind.
Our all activity, virtues, is created by mind, and our own virtues is created by mind.
And that's really the mind.
This, of course, we've heard so many times. Do we have now kind of have confidence? It's true.
So that means our motivation, our mood, M-O-D-E, is also created by mind.
There's nothing else not created by the mind.
Happiness is created by mind, sadness is created by mind.
Mind. So every level is really created by mind.
That is really, we shouldn't have confidence, not intellectually, having kind of vague knowledge.
When we see that as truly as it is, then we will be better off. Really, we will be good.
We won't make too many mistakes. Or we won't too much, kind of feel grasping, holding to mind.
Because it's our mind is created.
So put that reason here, kumzi yapo in a debate came up for the monarch of all creations.
The monarch of creation is created everything, our feeling in a person.
Then he said, gozong. He said, and gozong to all of that.
So it's sovereignty of your three doors, discerning, I think it's discerning to your, so that means
analytically.
Analyte exam of your three doors, which is principle.
And that means again, it's mind.
That's principle is mind.
Among three doors, body, dog, body, speech, and mind.
Our physical, our speech, and our mind.
Among that is mind is principle.
Body and our physical and our voice is attendance or servant of the mind.
Whatever the mind directed, whatever mind says, the body will go and verbal will speak.
With all that, the body and verbal will not perform the activities.
So that means mind is principle, and to your other is attendance and service.
And again, there's so many ways, you know already those so many times, so I'm not going to talk too
many things.
And again, it's coming later too.
But it's true or not, you have to have confidence.
It's not just on the intellectual status.
Really you should have confidence.
Trust, see that truly.
That is called practitioner's, your practicing.
Not just intellectually like that, see knowledge or something, and then don't.
And therefore, we like to control, we like to have good conduct.
Conduct is generally appearance.
Conduct is appearance.
Mind, nobody sees.
That's what the teaching says.
Maybe some other can see, I don't know.
Some certain people can tell.
But otherwise, mind, nobody can see.
But body activity and verbal activity, many people will see.
So therefore, if we like to have good conduct, that please our own self and as well as others, then
take care of the mind.
And for that reason, the great Master Shanti never said, when you don't know the secret of the mind
,
mind, those who would like to have the happiness, and they would like sadness or trouble,
then they're not really, they don't, they just endlessly waste their time.
That's what the teaching says.
Maybe you understand what I said.
Me, the happiness and the mind, sadness are absolutely dependent upon the mind we would like to do.
This is our mind.
And we like to have the happiness, take care of the mind.
And we like to avoid the sadness and troubles, take care of our own mind.
By who?
By ourselves.
That's the teaching, it's true.
All this, conduct is an expression of the mind.
Therefore, people will say, oh, something if you do, oh, that person has good heart.
How they know they have good heart?
Because activity is coming by verbally, physically, something appealing, and again and again, that
person is a good heart.
Heart, the person, and the activity is coming from the disturbance to the others, again and again.
Then, people will say, oh, that person is bad.
The good and bad is not on the surface.
It's all in the mind, with how we take care of our mind.
Again, this has to be confidence. We have to have seen this is true or not. Ourself. Really.
See that truly, and then follow that.
When you know that, you follow with that.
Then that is called practitioners.
Practitioners.
Practice makes perfect.
Then we practice.
Then ourself becomes perfect and perfect, more perfect, more perfect.
Good things, all that.
So that this is.
Then, next one.